# Directory Structure

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [The Root Directory](#the-root-directory)
    - [The `app` Directory](#the-root-app-directory)
    - [The `config` Directory](#the-config-directory)
    - [The `services` Directory](#the-services-directory)
- [The App Directory](#the-app-directory)
    - [The `adapters` Directory](#the-broadcasting-directory)
    - [The `controllers` Directory](#the-console-directory)
    - [The `helpers` Directory](#the-helpers-directory)
    - [The `models` Directory](#the-models-directory)
    - [The `orchestrator` Directory](#the-orchestrator-directory)
    - [The `repository` Directory](#the-repository-directory)
    - [The `structs` Directory](#the-structs-directory)

<a name="introduction"></a>
## Introduction

The default Lets application structure is intended to provide a great starting point for both large and small applications. But you are free to organize your application however you like. Lets imposes almost no restrictions on where any given class is located - as long as Composer can autoload the class.

> **Note**
> New to Lets? Check out the [Lets Bootcamp](https://lets.dev1.my.id) for a hands-on tour of the framework while we walk you through building your first Lets application.

<a name="the-root-directory"></a>
## The Root Directory

<a name="the-root-app-directory"></a>
#### The App Directory

The `app` directory contains the core code of your application. We'll explore this directory in more detail soon; however, almost all of the classes in your application will be in this directory.

<a name="the-config-directory"></a>
#### The Config Directory

The `config` directory, as the name implies, contains all of your application's configuration files. It's a great idea to read through all of these files and familiarize yourself with all of the options available to you.

<a name="the-services-directory"></a>
#### The Services Directory

The `services` directory contains all of the route and middleware definitions for your application. By default, several route files are included with Lets: `grpc.go`, `http.go` and `rabbit.go`.

<a name="the-app-directory"></a>
## The App Directory

The majority of your application is housed in the `app` directory.

The `app` directory contains a variety of additional directories such as `adapters`, `controllers`, `helpers`, `models`,`orchestrator`, `repository`, and `structs`.

> **Note**  
> Many of the classes in the `app` directory can be generated by Lets via commands. To review the available commands, run the `lets list make` command in your terminal.

<a name="the-adapters-directory"></a>
#### The Adapters Directory

The `adapters` directory contains requests handlers for protocols. Semua data dibinding kedalam sebuah struct dan digunakan sebelum menjalankan controller. Dengan menggunakan adapter anda dapat menggunakan controller yang sama untuk beberapa protocol yang berbeda.

<a name="the-controllers-directory"></a>
#### The Controllers Directory

The `controllers` directory contains your controllers, middleware, and form requests. Almost all of the logic to handle requests entering your application will be placed in this directory.

<a name="the-helpers-directory"></a>
#### The Helpers Directory

The `helpers` directory contains all of your helpers.

<a name="the-models-directory"></a>
#### The Models Directory

The `models` directory contains all of your [Gorm model classes](https://gorm.io/). The Gorm ORM included with Lets provides a beautiful, simple ActiveRecord implementation for working with your database. Each database table has a corresponding "Model" which is used to interact with that table. Models allow you to query for data in your tables, as well as insert new records into the table.

<a name="the-orchestrator-directory"></a>
#### The Orchestrator Directory

The `orchestrator` directory contains all of your saga pattern.

<a name="the-repository-directory"></a>
#### The Repository Directory

The `repository` directory contains all of your database query handler.

<a name="the-Structs-directory"></a>
#### The Structs Directory

The `structs` directory contains all of your struct.
